<img src="media/image1.jpg" style="width:5.025in;height:5.025in" />

# Table of Contents

[Table of Figures [2](#table-of-figures)](#table-of-figures)

[1.Purpose of the app: [3](#purpose-of-the-app)](#purpose-of-the-app)

[2.The design of the app:
[4](#the-design-of-the-app)](#the-design-of-the-app)

[Design Considerations:
[4](#design-considerations)](#design-considerations)

[[4](#section-2)](#section-2)

[[5](#a-cell-phone-screen-with-a-penguin-face-description-automatically-generated)](#a-cell-phone-screen-with-a-penguin-face-description-automatically-generated)

[The Intuitive design of the app
[6](#the-intuitive-design-of-the-app)](#the-intuitive-design-of-the-app)

[Content Prioritisation
[6](#content-prioritisation)](#content-prioritisation)

[Legible font & Lettering
[6](#legible-font-lettering)](#legible-font-lettering)

[Visible Interface Elements
[6](#visible-interface-elements)](#visible-interface-elements)

[Images Used: [7](#images-used)](#images-used)

[Hand Position Controls:
[7](#hand-position-controls)](#hand-position-controls)

[Choice of colour: [7](#choice-of-colour)](#choice-of-colour)

[4.Link to YouTube Demonstration of the app:
[8](#link-to-youtube-demonstration-of-the-app)](#link-to-youtube-demonstration-of-the-app)

[5. Reference List: [8](#reference-list)](#reference-list)

# Table of Figures

[Figure 1:Penguin Picture [1](#_Toc165844041)](#_Toc165844041)

[Figure 2:Tomogachi [3](#_Toc165844042)](#_Toc165844042)

[Figure 3:Welcome Page [4](#_Toc165844043)](#_Toc165844043)

[Figure 4:Main Page [4](#_Toc165844044)](#_Toc165844044)

[Figure 5:Opening of the app displaying icon
[5](#_Toc165844045)](#_Toc165844045)

# 

#  

# 1.Purpose of the app:

This app is inspired primarily by the old and classic yet iconic
Japanese toy that was made during the 1900s, which allowed to take care
of a virtual pet buy feeding, playing with and even cleaning the pet as
well as other apps like “Talking Tom”, “Widget able” and more. This app
was created for children and adults alike and with no age restriction
nor requirement. This app was created for a simple, fun and nostalgic
experience.

<img src="media/image2.jpeg" style="width:5in;height:3.85556in"
alt="A pink handheld game device Description automatically generated" />

<span id="_Toc165844042" class="anchor"></span>Figure 2:Tomogachi

# 2.The design of the app:

## Design Considerations:

<img src="media/image3.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.55417in"
alt="A screenshot of a phone" />

<span id="_Toc165844043" class="anchor"></span>Figure 3:Welcome Page

### <img src="media/image4.png" style="width:6.26806in;height:3.58889in" />

<span id="_Toc165844044" class="anchor"></span>Figure 4:Main Page

### 

### <img src="media/image5.png" style="width:4.0839in;height:8.65746in"
alt="A cell phone screen with a penguin face Description automatically generated" />

<span id="_Toc165844045" class="anchor"></span>Figure 5:Opening of the
app displaying icon

### The Intuitive design of the app

The program or application has been made with a basic and simple, yet
appealing design made to grab the user’s or player’s attention from the
moment they see the app. It has also been made to help the user
understand and navigate the app easily accessible and not to be a “head
scratcher”. The design is good for all those who also hate to go through
tutorials and just want to want to jump into the action.

### Content Prioritisation 

The app/programme has been set and created in a way that adds a bit of
that “little is more” effect while having that fun and exciting design
to but making sure not to scare or confuse the user. The app starts of
by a bright but colourful screen that introduces the pet “Apollo” then
shoes a button below. The second screen has all the functions which will
also change the actions and have a different result depending on the
progress bar and the button which is pressed or rather the health or
condition of Apollo.

### Legible font & Lettering 

In regard to the aspect of legibility and lettering the app was made in
such a way that it was made with clear and legible font for the target
audience if not for all age groups and people apart from the main
heading in the first page was written in a bright yellow as well the
actual name reading “My Tomogachi Apollo”.

The second page although the page does not have much writing, it still
ensures to have clear and legible writing both on the subheading next to
the progress bars but also on the buttons as well.

### Visible Interface Elements 

The application or program was made in such a way that none of the
elements featured in the design would clash, design or generally made it
in such a way that it is not a struggle to interact with the
application.

The application was developed and designed in a way that the elements
have enough spacing from each other and does not constrict or overlap
one another but not so much but at just the right measurement, allowing
all of them to be easily accessible and interactive.

## Images Used:

The firs image that the user will is the app icon which is a picture of
Apollo’s (your pet) face as displayed in here. Then will display the
home page of the app which with show Apollo peaking out and waving to
the user, this was done to add a bit of that cute effect.

The second page will display various image based on the button clicked
and status of the pet from Apollo’s hungry state, full, playing, eating
and so on.

## Hand Position Controls:

Within the design, the design has been created in a way that the that it
has three separate functions that the user will be able to control or
four if we’re counting the button in the first page/welcome page. The
first as mentioned is the “start” or the “Press to play” button at the
bottom of the page.

In the next page we have the play, feed, and clean buttons next to the
progress bars below Apollo. These three buttons have been placed and
positioned in a way to ensure that the user is easily able to use the
button and that they buttons don’t overlap or constrict each other, this
makes it easier for the user to comfortably use and enjoy the app.

## Choice of colour:

The choice of colours used for this app(application) were chosen for the
sole purpose of creativity and to capture the attention of the audience.

This app contains various colours but mostly consists of light colours
for reasons mentioned before.

These colours include light blue, light yellow, black and white from
Apllo and many more colours used different things.

See.[2.The design of the app:](#the-design-of-the-app)

# 4.Link to YouTube Demonstration of the app:

[App Demonstration](https://youtu.be/8exqwAxRCAA)

# 5. Reference List:

CodeWithMazn. (2020). How to Open a New Activity With a Button in
Android Studio \[Kotlin 2020\] \[Video\]. YouTube. Available at:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4bEZ2PlIo8g&t=3s> \[Accessed 1 May
2024\].

The IIE.2024. INTRODUCTION TO MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 2024\[
IMAD5112Module Menu\]. The Independent Institute of education:
Unpublished

OpenAI. (2024). Chat-GPT (Version 3.5) \[Large language model\].
Available at[: https://chat.openai.com/](:%20https:/chat.openai.com/%20)
\[Accessed 25 April 2024\].

3\. Phuc VR. (2020). How to make Progress Bar - Kotlin - Android Studio
\[Video\]. YouTube. Available at:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-tCLcmyTelI&t=13s> \[Accessed 1 May
2024\].
